Refresh testing docs (#45032)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/testing/unit-testing-nunit-runner-intro.md

---
title: Microsoft.Testing.Platform support in NUnit (aka NUnit runner)
description: Learn about the NUnit runner, a lightweight way to run tests without depending on the .NET SDK.
author: Evangelink
ms.author: amauryleve
ms.date: 05/21/2024
---

> # Microsoft.Testing.Platform support in NUnit (aka NUnit runner)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Microsoft.Testing.Platform support in NUnit (NUnit runner)
```

> NUnit supports running tests with both VSTest and [Microsoft.Testing.Platform (MTP)](./unit-testing-platform-intro.md). The support for MTP is powered by the NUnit runner which can run tests in all contexts (for example, continuous integration (CI) pipelines, CLI, Visual Studio Test Explorer, and VS Code Text Explorer). The NUnit runner is embedded directly in your NUnit test projects, and there are no other app dependencies, such as `vstest.console` or `dotnet test`, needed to run your tests. However, you can still run your tests using `dotnet test`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NUnit supports running tests with both VSTest and [Microsoft.Testing.Platform (MTP)](./unit-testing-platform-intro.md). The support for MTP is powered by the NUnit runner, which can run tests in all contexts (for example, continuous integration (CI) pipelines, CLI, Visual Studio Test Explorer, and VS Code Text Explorer). The NUnit runner is embedded directly in your NUnit test projects, and there are no other app dependencies, such as `vstest.console` or `dotnet test`, needed to run your tests. However, you can still run your tests using `dotnet test`.
```

The NUnit runner is open source, and builds on top of [`Microsoft.Testing.Platform`](./unit-testing-platform-intro.md). You can find `Microsoft.Testing.Platform` code in [microsoft/testfx](https://github.com/microsoft/testfx/tree/main/src/Platform/Microsoft.Testing.Platform) GitHub repository. The NUnit runner is supported in NUnit3TestAdapter version 5.0 or greater. For more information, see [NUnit and Microsoft.Testing.Platform](https://docs.nunit.org/articles/vs-test-adapter/NUnit-And-Microsoft-Test-Platform.html)

## Enable NUnit runner in a NUnit project

You can enable NUnit runner by adding the `EnableNUnitRunner` property and setting `OutputType` to `Exe` in your project file. You also need to ensure that you're using `NUnit3TestAdapter` version 5.0 or newer.

> > [!TIP]
> > We do recommend you set `EnableNUnitRunner` property in `Directory.Build.props` rather than individual project files. This ensures that it applies to all your projects.

Author: ```suggestion
> [!TIP]
> It's advised to set the `EnableNUnitRunner` and `TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport` properties in *Directory.Build.props* file instead of *csproj* file to ensure all test projects in your solution are using the MSTest runner.
```

> > It's advised to set the `EnableNUnitRunner` and `TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport` properties in *Directory.Build.props* file instead of individual project files to ensure all test projects in your solution are using the NUnit runner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To ensure all test projects in your solution use the NUnit runner, set the `EnableNUnitRunner` and `TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport` properties in *Directory.Build.props* file instead of individual project files.
```
